Add example of how to create a `kubeconfig` for automation and enrich description (#1347)
giantswarm/docs: src/content/ui-api/management-api/authentication/index.md

| `name` | Friendly name of the authenticated user. |
| `preferred_username` | Name to use as an identifier, as an alternative to the user's email address. |

> ## Authenticating for programmatic access {#service-auth}

Reviewer: FYI: Changing the anchor will mean that existing links from the outside will no longer find a specific target. So should be avoided if possible.

Author: Got it!

```nohighlight
SA_NAME=automation
```

2. Find Kubernetes Secret associated with the service account:

```nohighlight
SECRET=$(kubectl get sa $SA_NAME -o jsonpath='{.secrets[0].name}')
```

3. Find the service account's token:

```nohighlight
TOKEN=$(kubectl get secret $SECRET -o jsonpath='{.data.token}' | base64 --decode)
```

4. Find Kubernetes CA certificate:

```nohighlight
CA_CERT=$(kubectl get secret $SECRET -o jsonpath='{.data.ca\.crt}')
```

5. Grab installation's API endpoint:

```nohighlight
API_URL=$(kubectl config view --minify -o jsonpath='{.clusters[0].cluster.server}')
```

6. Grab installation's name:

```nohighlight
MC_NAME=$(kubectl config view --minify -o jsonpath='{.clusters[0].name}')
```

7. Generate kubectl configuration:

```nohighlight
cat <<EOF > kubeconfig
apiVersion: v1
kind: Config
clusters:
  - name: $MC_NAME
    cluster:
      certificate-authority-data: $CA_CERT
      server: $API_URL
users:
  - name: $SA_NAME
    user:
      token: $TOKEN
current-context: $MC_NAME
contexts:
- context:
    cluster: $MC_NAME
    user: $SA_NAME
  name: $MC_NAME
EOF
```

8. Test newly created file:

```nohighlight
kubectl --kubeconfig kubeconfig cluster-info
```

> ### Remote access to the Workload Cluster {#remote-wc}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Remote access to the workload cluster {#remote-wc}
```

> Workload Clusters rely on the [TokenRequest API](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/authentication-resources/token-request-v1/#create-create-token-of-a-serviceaccount) for authentication, so the steps from the previous paragraph will not work against them. We strongly encourage you to use the `kubectl-gs` plugin and [client certificate login with a self-contained kubeconfig](https://docs.giantswarm.io/ui-api/kubectl-gs/login/#wc-client-cert-automation) instead.

Reviewer: For links within docs, we use `relref` which is a HUGO shortcode that helps ensure link integrity, as it fails on build time if the target is not found.

```suggestion
Workload clusters rely on the [TokenRequest API](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/authentication-resources/token-request-v1/#create-create-token-of-a-serviceaccount) for authentication, so the steps from the previous paragraph will not work against them. We strongly encourage you to use the `kubectl-gs` plugin and [client certificate login with a self-contained kubeconfig]({{< relref "/ui-api/kubectl-gs/login/#wc-client-cert-automation" >}}) instead.
```

## Authenticating for programmatic access {#service-auth}

> For programmatic access, for example from CI/CD pipelines, you should not rely on the above authentication mechanism. Depending on your use case, you may follow one of the below scenarios.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For programmatic access, for example from CI/CD pipelines, you should not rely on the above authentication mechanism. Depending on your use case, follow one of the scenarios below.
```

### Remote access to the Management Cluster {#remote-mc}

> Each Giant Swarm installation provides a service account named `automation` in the `default` namespace that may be used for creating a self-contained `kubeconfig` file. **Note however**, this account comes with a quite powerful set of permissions, thus **we strongly recommend to create a specific service account for each application**, binding it to specific roles granting only the required permissions in the required namespaces.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each Giant Swarm installation provides a service account named `automation` in the `default` namespace that may be used for creating a self-contained `kubeconfig` file. **Note however**, this account comes with a powerful set of permissions, thus **we strongly recommend you create a specific service account for each application**, binding it to specific roles granting only the required permissions in the required namespaces.
```

> Regardless of service account you decide to use, and assuming you are currently logged in to the right installation, you can utilize the below instruction to create a config file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Regardless of which service account you decide to use. From the management cluster, you can utilize the step below to create a config file.
```

I think this can be shorter. The important part IMO is that they are no the MC not the WC.

Author: agree!

1. Export the Service Account name:

```nohighlight

> SANAME=automation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
SA_NAME=automation
```

Nit but this is more readable for me.

```

2. Find Kubernetes Secret associated with the service account:

```nohighlight
SECRET=$(kubectl get sa $SANAME -o jsonpath='{.secrets[0].name}')
```

3. Find the service account's token:

```nohighlight
TOKEN=$(kubectl get secret $SECRET -o jsonpath='{.data.token}' | base64 --decode)
```

4. Find Kubernetes CA certificate:

```nohighlight

> CACERT=$(kubectl get secret $SECRET -o jsonpath='{.data.ca\.crt}')

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
CA_CERT=$(kubectl get secret $SECRET -o jsonpath='{.data.ca\.crt}')
```

```

5. Grab installation's API endpoint:

```nohighlight

> APIURL=$(kubectl config view --minify -o jsonpath='{.clusters[0].cluster.server}')

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
API_URL=$(kubectl config view --minify -o jsonpath='{.clusters[0].cluster.server}')
```

```

6. Grab installation's name:

```nohighlight
CODENAME=$(kubectl config view --minify -o jsonpath='{.clusters[0].name}')
```

7. Generate kubectl configuration:

```nohighlight
cat <<EOF > kubeconfig
apiVersion: v1
kind: Config
clusters:
  - name: $CODENAME
    cluster:
      certificate-authority-data: $CACERT
      server: $APIURL
users:
  - name: $SANAME
    user:
      token: $TOKEN
current-context: $CODENAME
contexts:
- context:
    cluster: $CODENAME
    user: $SANAME
  name: $CODENAME
EOF
```

8. Test newly created file:

```nohighlight
kubectl --kubeconfig kubeconfig cluster-info
```

### Remote access to the Workload Cluster {#remote-wc}

> Workload Clusters relies on the [TokenRequest API](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/authentication-resources/token-request-v1/#create-create-token-of-a-serviceaccount) for authentication, so instruction from the previous paragraph will not work against them. We strongly encourage you to use the `kubectl-gs` plugin and [client certificate login with a self-contained kubeconfig](https://docs.giantswarm.io/ui-api/kubectl-gs/login/#wc-client-cert-automation) instead.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Workload clusters rely on the [TokenRequest API](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/authentication-resources/token-request-v1/#create-create-token-of-a-serviceaccount) for authentication, so the steps from the previous paragraph will not work against them. We strongly encourage you to use the `kubectl-gs` plugin and [client certificate login with a self-contained kubeconfig](https://docs.giantswarm.io/ui-api/kubectl-gs/login/#wc-client-cert-automation) instead.
```

Which part is internal? That isn't clear for me but as long as we're linking to public docs I think its fine.

Author: Probably none, I mean I haven't found any reference in our docs that we use TokenRequest API and do not inject SAs token directly into containers on WCs, so I wondered if that's something I can share in public docs. But then I guess users on WCs have admin privileges, so they can check configuration of the API server themselves and grab this info?

Reviewer 2: Hmm I'm not sure on our usage of the TokenRequest API. I think Rainbow would know better.

In general though we like to link to the upstream Kubernetes docs when appropriate. So good to include it. 👍

Author: @giantswarm/team-rainbow sorry for bothering you, I could really use your opinion here 🙏

Reviewer: I don't know enough here. (Hoping for the rest of the team)

### Runners inside a cluster {#inside-runner}

> When you deploy any form of automation (e.g. runners) inside a cluster that is intended to perform work against this cluster, then we strongly recommend using [service accounts](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/service-accounts-admin/) directly. Please refer to your automation provider documentation for finding the right configuration steps.

Author: we could add links here to Gitlab or Jenkins as one of most popular tools, but not sure if that's not too much

Reviewer 2: What is automation provider in this context? The CI/CD system? I think mentioning GitLab and Jenkins as examples is a good idea.

Author: Yup, I meant mostly the CI/CD system

Reviewer 2: @ljakimczuk Cool I updated my suggestion below to "any form of automation (e.g. CI/CD runners)"

I think that's generic and then we don't need an example like GitLab. WDYT?

Author: Yeah, I agree, especially outside docs may get changed or moved around, so let's not risk breaking the links

> When you deploy any form of automation (e.g. runners) inside a cluster that is intended to perform work against this cluster, then we strongly recommend using [service accounts](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/service-accounts-admin/) directly. Please refer to your automation provider documentation for finding the right configuration steps.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you deploy any form of automation (e.g. runners) inside a cluster that access the cluster, we strongly recommend using [service accounts](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/service-accounts-admin/) directly. Please refer to your automation provider documentation for finding the right configuration steps.
```

Just some edits for flow.
